So then we wanna see that it's
adding that item to the list.
And here is where we get into
a philosophical conundrum,
which is this test that
I'm gonna write is flawed.
And before I was like, yeah,
if you just had one test that went through
the entire flow, that would totally work.
Except that if I had done that, I would
not have found that this test was flawed.
This test, when I wrote it,
I did not aspire to write a flawed
test just to mess with you, right?
I supposed to write a test
to teach you something, and
then I found out later it was flawed.
And I kept it flawed, because then there
was something more important to talk about
based on that flaw.
So we will do it, and I'm not gonna
tell you what the flaw is just yet,
because I feel like I would
like to keep you in suspense.
But if you can see it beforehand,
you will get 50 points.
Points work the same way they
do in Super Mario Bros.,
which is they don't do anything,
but you can get them.
And so if anyone both in the chat, and in
the room, and also if you're watching this
later, you can also have 50 points if
you get it before I tell you the answer.
Cool, so we've got that in place and
like I said, we copy and
pasted some of the initial selectors,
and we'll say, await user.type.
NewItemInput, at this point, we'll grab,
Let's grab an iPad Pro this time.
And we'll type that in,
and then we'll wait and
we'll hit New, we'll hit that button.
We'll click it, and
we'll New item button.
Boom, and then we can expect that, so
by check boxes because I'm a good person,
relatively speaking,
have labels with the text.
If you click the label, it also checks
the checkbox and I can do get by label again.
getByLabelText, and we want iPad pro.
And we'll say that should not be checked
in this case, not to be checked.
Out of just pure curious as a bonus lap,
I am pretty sure that should
empty out the field and,
I'm just fill and
disables the button again.
So if one wanted to go for a bonus round,
they could then maybe expand
this test to see if the input feels now
empty again and the button is disabled.
I think that would be good as well.
Obviously, there's a lot more
things that you could test.
But a lot of this is just
watching me select items and
firing user events at them,
which I think you've gotten the point.
Okay, so that is basically more of
a accurate in real world version
barring network requests and other
things you don't control, that's later.
Where we can kind of just grab
a component and kick the tires on.
Again, I think component
testing where I choose to use
it the most is in particularly
stuff like form validation,
which is everyone's favorite part
about being a front end engineer.
And stuff along those lines where you can
just do all sorts of stuff really fast,
run through everything,
get that immediate feedback that
the form still works as expected, right?
You could do the watch in this case,
and just as you're making changes,
see what you have.
And to that just psychological aspect,
writing the test first, getting them,
failing them, watching them as they
slowly turn green is very rewarding.
Okay, so all my tests passed,
it's not clear how I quietly
sidestepped the issue here.
But if you squint, you can see that I
made a choice to avoid an issue here.
Seems like super convenient for all the
copy and pasting that I did that I chose
for one test to use a MacBook Pro and
the other one to use an iPad Pro, right?
Seems like really, really just
convenient that I made that choice.
What happens if I change that back?
We'll go ahead and we'll run that.
This time, I might do in the terminal so
I get,
that one's running the test in isolation.
I'm already ruining my own surprise.
I'll go into source, and then we wanted
the packing examples,
packing list, npm test.
Why is my tests passing all of a sudden?
It's gonna ruin my whole surprise here.
We've got it, because I know they
got really ahead of myself here.
Let's go ahead and
write another one, remove it.
And now, I've ruined the surprise.
>> You did the right one.
>> What's that?
>> You did it the right way?
>> No, I just thought that those tests,
I actually I had it.
And I'm like, you know what,
it was just running the second time.
And we'll get it and then,
since I ruined my own surprise,
I've tried to built it up too.
Look, it fails, which is weird, cuz all
I did was copy and paste the same test.
It's totally passed, right?
And this is what we're talking about
the difference between getBy and
I thought I was leaving something for
later.
We've got to getBy MacBook Pro, and
it says, let's read the error message.
It says, scrolling up, is it down here?
No, I guess scroll up a little bit more.
Which is nice,
I get to see the DOM in this case, right?
Look, found multiple elements
with the text MacBook Pro.
Here are the matching elements,
and they look roughly the same.
They have two different IDs.
But other than that, they're on the page.
But why?
How did that happen?
I don't understand what's going on here.
Clearly, and
we'll see that if I skip this other test.
Then everything is fine.
So one of the things we look for in our
tests is this idea of test isolation,
right?
The idea is running two tests
should not break each other, right?
And this is one of those things where it
is very easy to be like, know you what,
I'm just gonna leave both those tests as I was
going, open the PR, hope nobody notices.
Because you don't have the checks that
we're talking about the GitHub actions.
You try to slide it in there, you get the
ticket marked down, you get it merged in,
then you go on your weekend, right?
That's why you need the build process in
there with the GitHub actions to test for
the code coverage.
Are there ways even tests like, hey, for
this given file, are there enough tests,
so on and so forth.
I might if I didn't have to like stand
up here in front of you all, and
it was I might choose to
delete one of these tests.
So in this one,
let's make this one a real test.
Removes an item.
So the goal is effectively
at the end here to say,
We'll say, const,
removeItem is
screen.getByLabelText MacBook Pro.
This doesn't really matter, cuz this
test will blow up no matter what for
the reasons it blew up before.
And then we'll say, await,
I need the,
let me look at the DOM real quick.
Yeah, there's only one Remove
button on the page in this test.
So let's actually getByLabelText,
Remove, await use.click, removeItem.
And then we'll, There's a blow up, and
then we'll deal with it afterwards.
This test is also good, because it
still blows up for the same reason.
And when it gets passed on,
we could add more to it.
So my problem here is that I don't
have test isolation, which is tricky,
because like I am rendering that
component brand new every time as a fresh
component and different from the last one.